.\"
.\" DA Pierre‐Jean Fichet
.\" DS Utroff prexml and postxml manual
.\" DT Utroff prexml and postxml manual
.\" DK utroff prexml postxml troff nroff heirloom tmac xml
.
.
.
.TH PREXML & POSTXML 1 ´2017‐12‐11´
.
.
.
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBprexml postxml\fR - \fInroff\fR processors to build xml
files.
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBprexml\fR < \fIfile.tr\fR |
\fBnroff\fR \fB‐m\fR\fIux\fR |
\fBpostxml\fR > \fIfile.xml\fR
.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIPostxml\fR provides a solution to build
an xml file from a troff document that relies on \fInroff\fR
itself. Since \fInroff\fR builds a plain text file from a troff
document, it can be used, with an appropriate macro, to
produce an intermediate file that \fIpostxml\fR
will translate to xml.
.PP
That intermediate file contains tags that \fIpostxml\fR will
transform to xml tags. If these tags are present in the
source file, and need to be printed as is, \fIprexml\fR
simply escapes these tags so that \fIpostxml\fR won’t
substitute them.
.PP
Since the final xml file might contain utf‐8 characters, the
\fB‐T\fR\fIlocale\fR option of \fInroff\fR must be used.
\fIUtmac\fR provides the \fIux\fR macro that aims to be used with
prexml and postxml. \fITroffxml\fR comes with xsl
stylesheets to create open document and html files.
So, the command line could be:
.PP
.EX
prexml \fB<\fR file.tr \fB|\fR nroff -Tlocale \
-mux \fB|\fR postxml \fB>\fR file.xml
xsltproc utohtml.xsl file.xml \fB>\fR file.html
xsltproc utofodt.xsl file.xml \fB>\fR file.fodt
.EE
.
.
.
.SH TAGS
.
.
.
.SS Postxml
.RS 3
.PP
\fIPostxml\fR will substitute the following tags.
.TP
\&\fB#[\fR
Replaced by \fB<\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#]\fR
Replaced by \fB>\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#(\fR
Replaced by \fB&\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#)\fR
Replaced by \fB;\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#~\fR
Replaced by \fB#\fR.
.TP
\&\fB\Een#‐\Een\fR
Removed from stream.
.PP
So the following text:
.PP
.EX
Some text
\fI#-\fR
\fB#[\fRa\fB#]\fR
\fI#-\fR
note text
\fB#[\fR/a\fB#]\fR
\fB#(lt#)\fR.
.EE
.PP
Will be transform in:
.PP
.EX
Some text\fB<\fRa\fB>\fRnote text\fB</\fRa\fB>\fR \fB&lt;\fR.
.EE
.
.
.
.SS Prexml
.RS 3
.PP
All these tags will be escaped by \fIprexml\fR if they are
present in the original file, following these rules:
.TP
\&\fB#[\fR
Replaced by \fB#~[\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#]\fR
Replaced by \fB#~]\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#(\fR
Replaced by \fB#~(\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#)\fR
Replaced by \fB#~)\fR.
.TP
\&\fB#~\fR
Replaced by \fB#~~\fR.
.TP
\&\fB\Een#‐\Een\fR
Replaced by \fB#~‐\fR.
.
.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
\&\fI@BINDIR@/prexml\fR \fI@BINDIR@/postxml\fR
Executables.
.TP
\&\fI@XSLDIR@/utohtml.xsl\fR
XSL stylesheet to transform an utmac document to html.
.TP
\&\fI@XSLDIR@/utofodt.xsl\fR
XSL stylesheet to transform an utmac document to flat odt.
.TP
\&\fI@XSLDIR@/utmac.ott\fR
Open Document Text Template close to Utmac.
.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
nroff(1).
.
.
.
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\fIPrexml\fR, \fIpostxml\fR and this man page are
distributed under a
two clause BSD
license.
.
.
.
.SH BUGS & HELP
.PP
Please, send questions bugs, and patches at help at utroff
dot org.
.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Pierre‐Jean Fichet.
